README.md, before:

<!-- -*- mode: markdown; coding: utf-8 -*- -->

# Led cube thingy

Documentation TODO.

## Requirements

To build in Eclipse, you are on your own. :) Good luck.

To build on Debian GNU/Linux or Ubuntu platform, install the following packages:

    avr-gcc gcc scons

If you want to generate animations, install the following packages as well:

    blender libav-tools

## Building in Eclipse

Import project to Eclipse using Projects from Git thingy.

Choose *Debug* (or some other) build configuration if you want to
build to AVR architecture.

To compile and run the PC exporter, qhoose *Exporter* as your build
configuration. You should run the produced executable (located at
<tt>Exporter</tt> subdirectory) in the same directory as this
file. For example, on Linux:

    Exporter/ledivilkku2.elf

## Building with SCons

If you feel yourself more comfortable at command prompt, there is
SCons build file for you. Just run:

    scons

Then the AVR output gets into `build_avr` and exporter stuff to
`build_exporter`. To run the exporter:

    build_exporter/exporter

If you want just to play with effets and you don't have an AVR compiler,
you may skip AVR build by running:

    scons --no-avr

## Programming AVR with SCons

If you are running Ubuntu 12.04 or newer and want to be able to flash without
root privileges, add the following udev rule to `/etc/udev/rules.d/10-usbasp`:

    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="16c0", ATTR{idProduct}=="05dc", MODE="0660", GROUP="adm"

Then just reboot your computer (or do some udev magic if you are Linux master).

To program, run:

    scons --program

## More information

For more information, feel free to contact Elovalo project group.

# Generating animations

See file `simulator/README.md`.

Commit message:

Print memory usage from ELF to get useful results. Document it, too.

README.md, after:

<!-- -*- mode: markdown; coding: utf-8 -*- -->

# Led cube thingy

Documentation TODO.

## Requirements

To build in Eclipse, you are on your own. :) Good luck.

To build on Debian GNU/Linux or Ubuntu platform, install the following packages:

    avr-gcc gcc scons

If you want to generate animations, install the following packages as well:

    blender libav-tools

## Building in Eclipse

Import project to Eclipse using Projects from Git thingy.

Choose *Debug* (or some other) build configuration if you want to
build to AVR architecture.

To compile and run the PC exporter, qhoose *Exporter* as your build
configuration. You should run the produced executable (located at
<tt>Exporter</tt> subdirectory) in the same directory as this
file. For example, on Linux:

    Exporter/ledivilkku2.elf

## Building with SCons

If you feel yourself more comfortable at command prompt, there is
SCons build file for you. Just run:

    scons

Then the AVR output gets into `build_avr` and exporter stuff to
`build_exporter`. To run the exporter:

    build_exporter/exporter

If you want just to play with effets and you don't have an AVR compiler,
you may skip AVR build by running:

    scons --no-avr

## Programming AVR with SCons

If you are running Ubuntu 12.04 or newer and want to be able to flash without
root privileges, add the following udev rule to `/etc/udev/rules.d/10-usbasp`:

    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="16c0", ATTR{idProduct}=="05dc", MODE="0660", GROUP="adm"

Then just reboot your computer (or do some udev magic if you are Linux master).

To program, run:

    scons --program

## Size optimization

There is enough EEPROM but the SRAM usage is quite high because of
front and back buffers uses 0x300 bytes each. This leaves very scarce
resources for effect development. To see contents of SRAM, run:

    avr-objdump -t -j .bss build_release/ledcube.elf

Bytes used in SRAM is printed every time scons is run. When it exceeds
2048 bytes, you are in need of optimization.

## More information

For more information, feel free to contact Elovalo project group.

# Generating animations

See file `simulator/README.md`.
